So the next thing I would like to
talk about are responsive images.
And specifically, we're gonna talk about
the picture element, source set and sizes.
And we're gonna talk about
when to use each one.
The actual code for
these things is just an HTML and
it is not all that difficult to write.
And it's not that difficult to understand,
but
choosing the right HTML element
at the right moment in time.
Is not necessarily all that
straightforward or easy so
I wanna talk a little bit about
these types of responsive images and
give you some background so that you
can make more intelligent choices.
When it comes to responsive images
inside of your web pages, so
that's what this little
PowerPoint deck is all about.
So in the beginning, it was really easy.
We just had an image tag and
we would just put in one image and
it would display on all the websites and
everything was just fine.
It was a beautiful world to live in and
we had rainbows and unicorns and ponies.
But then within market had to ruin it.
And we came up with this
concept of responsive images,
which makes us ask a whole bunch of
different questions when it comes to
what kind of image should be
displaying on which device.
So first of all,
you have many content choices.
One of those might be the so
called art direction.
Lot of people when they write about
responsive images they talk about art
direction, but we never really have
any idea what they're talking about.
I'm gonna demonstrate for
you what printer in just a moment.
You might be thinking about the format
of your image because there are so
many, where's GIF JPG and
PNG which we've had for years SVG is
a relatively recent addition of course for
illustration types of things.
But now we're just about to come up
with a whole new suite of image formats,
AVIF, WebP.
And there's several others
that are coming down the pipe.
You may need to think about pixel density.
So you have retina images, for
example, on Apple devices or
you have some other different type
of pixel densities on other devices.
So are you serving up the right image
with the right pixel density to
the right device?
What dimensions is the image
going to display at?
Sometimes we have images that are quite
large that we display in a small space.
Hopefully we don't go the other way
around to the images look terrible.
So we need to know what size will that
image display on the webpage it'll
actually affect your performance and
how things load.
And then finally,
who is going to choose what image you
use at any particular point in time?
Do you wanna make those
choices as the webpage author?
Or are you okay with letting
the browser decide and
we're gonna take a look at that in
a little bit of detail as well.
So, a lot of these things are outlined
in Avios manies fabulous book image
optimization which came out in April
of 2021 from Smashing Magazine.
It's a great book, it's 528 pages.
So if you thought there wasn't that
much to know about images, you're wrong.
There's a ton to know about images.
It does have information about HTML,
CSS, and all kinds of JavaScript and
performance implications.
So, what I'm gonna talk
about here is a tiny,
tiny subset of everything
you need to know.
I would encourage you to check out
his book for more information.
So the brief history of
responsive images of this.
In May 2010, Ethan Marcotte defines
whatever responsive images.
And then from 2010 to 2014,
it was just a disaster.
We had a big disaster where
responsive images were concerned.
There were server side solutions for
serving up different images
under certain conditions.
There were clients sign
images driven by JavaScript.
There were paid solutions.
There were free solutions.
There was all kinds of different things.
But that was the time when
everybody was talking about it and
seeing what a responsive image was.
We ended to find some standards and
then finally in 2016 the picture
element was the first one that was
supported by the big four web browsers
Firefox Chrome edge and Safari all
supported picture at that point in time.
And then at as I mentioned
a little bit earlier in 2017,
source set and
sizes were released as part of edge,
meaning that all of the major browsers
supported those attributes as well.
And so now here we are in 2021.
We have different solutions
available to us for
responsive images that are all free,
that are HTML driven.
That are very good and so
it's a great place to be finally 11 years
after the beginning of responsive design